Steven; Steven Quartz Universe is the titular main protagonist of the Steven Universe franchise. He is the son of Greg Universe and Rose Quartz, the only known hybrid of a human and a Gem and the first Crystal Gem of human descent. As a result of his parentage, Steven is an extraordinarily unique being with innate powers beyond that of normal humans and Gems. While he was only a child, Steven steadily grew from a tag-along to the Crystal Gems into the heart of the team thanks to his kind-hearted nature and resourcefulness.; images/icon.webp; images/steven-bg.webp
Garnet; Garnet is the current de-facto leader of the Crystal Gems. Garnet is one of the last surviving Gems on Earth who joined the Crystal Gems in the Rebellion against the Gem Homeworld and afterward assisted her friends in protecting the Earth over the next few millennia. After Rose Quartz gave up her physical form to give birth to her son, Steven Universe, Garnet took over as the leader of the group.; images/garnetIcon.webp; images/garnet-bg.webp
Amethyst; Amethyst is a member of the Crystal Gems. She is the last known Gem manufactured on Earth as a part of the Gem Homeworld's Kindergarten project, being one of the last surviving Gems on Earth. After being found by Rose Quartz and the other Crystal Gems, Amethyst helped her friends protect the Earth over the next four millennia, and often aids in the shenanigans of Steven Universe.; images/amethystIcon.webp; images/amethyst-bg.webp
Pearl; Pearl is a member of the Crystal Gems. She was one of Rose Quartz's closest followers and her sole confidant. Pearl is one of the last surviving Gems on Earth who joined the Crystal Gems in their rebellion against the Gem Homeworld. Pearl would afterward protect the Earth over the next several millennia alongside her friends, while later teaching Steven the ways of Gems.; images/pearlIcon.webp; images/pearl-bg.webp
Lapis Lazuli; Lapis Lazuli, or Lapis for short made her debut in "Mirror Gem". During her alignment with the Gem Homeworld, she was caught in the crossfire of The Rebellion. Homeworld mistook her for one of the Crystal Gems and imprisoned her within a magical mirror with the intention of interrogating her about her supposed comrade's whereabouts.; images/lapisIcon.webp; images/lapis-bg.webp
Peridot; Peridot made her debut in "Warp Tour". She was originally a Homeworld Gem technician and a certified Kindergartener. After being stranded on Earth following the events of "Jail Break", she acted as a recurring antagonist until becoming more of an anti-hero and pseudo-antagonist by establishing a truce with the Crystal Gems in "When It Rains" to help them save the Earth from the Cluster.; images/peridotIcon.webp; images/peridot-bg.webp
Jasper; Jasper is a Homeworld Gem and former antagonist who was first indirectly mentioned in "The Message" and made her official debut in "The Return". Originally sent to Earth to aid Peridot on her mission.; images/jasperIcon.webp; images/jasper-bg.webp